.\" 
.\" 
.\" Ivy probe, an Ivy agent for monitoring exchanges on a bus
.\" 
.\" Copyright 1998-2000
.\" Centre d'Etudes de la Navigation Aerienne
.\" 
.\" man page
.\" 
.\" Authors: Stephane Chatty <chatty@cena.dgac.fr>
.\" 
.\" $Id: ivyprobe.1 3259 2008-04-08 14:42:23Z bustico $
.\" 
.\" Please refer to file version.h for the
.\" copyright notice regarding this software
.\" 
.TH "IVYPROBE" "1" "1/29/99" "Stephane Chatty" "utility"
.SH "NAME"
ivyprobe \- an Ivy agent for monitoring exchanges on a bus

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B ivyprobe [\-b bus] [regexps]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B 
ivyprobe
connects to an Ivy bus and allows you to send and receive messages through a
text interface. This is mainly useful for testing and debugging Ivy applications.


.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 6
.B \-b bus
defines the Ivy bus to which to connect to. The syntax of bus addresses is
.I [network[,network]][:port],
where
.I port
is the UDP port used to broadcast the initial shakehand, and
.I network[,network]
is a set of network addresses on which information is
broadcast. Examples of bus adresses are 192.75:2000, :2001 or 192.75,192.76.
The default port is
.I 2010,
and the default network is
.I 127,
ie. loopback on the
local host.

.TP 
.B regexps
is a (possibly empty) list of regular expressions that define subscriptions.
.B ivyprobe
will subscribe to every of those regular expressions,
and print the contents (or more exactly the captured contents) of all matching
messages that will be emitted on the bus by other applications. Do not forget to 
protect your regexps with quotes if you use brackets or the * sign, otherwise
your shell will interpret them.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.B ivyprobe '(.*)'
will print all messages exchanged on the bus, with their full contents.

.B ivyprobe 'Hello (.*)' 
will give you the end of all messages starting with
.I Hello.
For instance, if an application emits
.I Hello World,
.B ivyprobe
will print
.I World.


.SH "LINE COMMANDS"
.B ivyprobe
accepts instructions on its command line once launched:
.TP 6
.I EOF (Ctrl\-D)
will make
.B ivyprobe
quit.
.TP 
.I All lines
that do not start with a dot will be interpreted as messages to be
broadcasted on the bus.
.TP 
.I \.help
will print the list of possible commands.
.TP 
.I \.quit
will make
.B ivyprobe
exit.
.TP 
.I \.bind 'regexp'
will create a new subscription, that will add up to those
passed at launch time.
.TP 
.I \.who
will list all applcations present on the bus.
.TP 
.I \.die appname
will ask application
.I appname
to quit, if present on the bus.
.TP 
.I \.direct appname id 'msg'
will send a direct message to
.I appname,
if present on the bus.
.TP 
.I \.where appname
will tell you on what host is
.I appname,
if present on the bus.


.SH "BUGS"
.B ivyprobe has no prompt for its command line.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP 
Ivy (1)
